AI-Based Code Explainer
This project provides an AI-based tool to generate human-readable explanations for Python code. It uses local AI models (CodeLlama and Mistral) via the Ollama framework to analyze Python scripts and produce clear, beginner-friendly explanations.

Features
Code Explanation: Generates plain-language explanations for Python code.
Local AI Models: Uses CodeLlama and Mistral models for efficient and private code analysis.
Customizable: Choose between different AI models for explanations.

Prerequisites
Before using the tool, ensure the following are installed on your system:
Python 3.x: Download and install Python from python.org.
Ollama: Download and install Ollama from ollama.ai.

Required Python Libraries:
Install the ollama and argparse libraries:
pip install ollama argparse
Pull the AI Models:
Pull the required AI models using Ollama:
ollama pull codellama
ollama pull mistral
Run the Script:
Use the code_explainer.py script to generate explanations for Python code.
example
python code_explainer.py example.py --model mistral
Replace example.py with the path to your Python script.

--model: Choose the AI model (codellama or mistral). Default is codellama.

View the Explanation:
The AI-generated explanation will be printed in the terminal.
Example
def greet(name):
    return f"Hello, {name}!"

print(greet("Alice"))

Command:
python code_explainer.py example.py --model mistral
Output:
💡 AI Explanation:
This Python code defines a function called `greet` that takes a single argument `name`. The function returns a greeting message that includes the provided name. The `print` statement calls the `greet` function with the argument `"Alice"`, resulting in the output: `Hello, Alice!`.

Technical Limitations
Generalized Explanations: The tool provides high-level explanations and may not cover all details.
Complex Code: Explanations for highly complex code may require manual verification.
Model Dependency: The quality of explanations depends on the selected AI model.

Ethical Considerations
Accuracy: AI-generated explanations may contain errors or biases. Always verify the output.
Sensitive Code: Avoid processing sensitive or proprietary code through the tool.

Future Enhancements
GUI Integration: Add a graphical user interface for better usability.
Multi-Language Support: Extend support to other programming languages.
Fine-Tuned Models: Improve explanation accuracy with fine-tuned AI models.

References
Ollama Documentation
CodeLlama Model

Python Official Documentation

License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Please open an issue or submit a pull request for any improvements.
